[Music]
good morning thank you all for being
here
from my right let me introduce who I
have with me and then acknowledge some
special friends to my right is Gareth
Rhodes who has been he works with the
Department of Financial Services but
he's been working with us in Albany
during this coronavirus pandemic to my
left Melissa DeRosa was secretary to the
governor to her left
Robert mihika who was the state budget
director he doesn't smile much in
nowadays because the state budget is not
in great shape but when the federal
government does the right thing and
gives us funding we expect that he's
gonna smile that big smile again it's a
pleasure to be in Rochester with so many
of my friends who have done such great
work for the state former lieutenant
governor Bob Duffy who worked with me
when we first got started and has done
great work for the entire state of New
York Danny Wegman pleasure to be with
you Wenk means is a great New York
Corporation and then he's a great civic
leader and they've been very helpful
through this situation also thank you
for allowing us to do the antibody
testing at Wegmans that's been very very
helpful and we thank you for everything
you've done
and Nicole Wegman thank you pleasure
thank you for being on our New York
forward advisory board to help us going
forward and find our way through this
let's give you an update on where we are
today the total number of
hospitalizations is down you see that
curve coming down you see that mountain
that we went up now we're on the other
side of the mountain you start to see
the shape of the mountain
unfortunately the decline from the
mountain is not as steep as the incline
right and the big question for us in New
York and and every state of course the
nation has been
how fast and how low does that decline
go right how fast does the decline
actually happen and what is the lowest
level that the decline will reach
unfortunately you see that we were
shaped we were hoping for a quick up
plateau at the top which is what they
talked about but a fast decline you see
the decline is again not as steep as the
incline but it is a decline and that's
good news the net change in total
hospitalizations is is down and that
change in intubations is down and that's
always good news when a person is it
intubated roughly 80% of the times there
is not a good outcome so the fact that
the intubations is down is a good is
good news and then the other end is how
many new cases are coming in the door
every day how many new diagnoses in
kovat cases and that number is also
declining so not only are the number of
people in hospitals coming down but the
number of new cases coming in the door
is down and that's good news because it
had plateaued at about 900 statewide for
a few days but this number is is down at
700 and that's a good number I would
take this with a grain of salt as they
say because this is reporting from
yesterday which was a Sunday and
sometimes we get different results on
the weekend remember this whole
reporting system is just been put in
place this never happened before this is
now every hospital in the state
reporting every day for the first time
so it's a plus or minus across the board
this is the number that haunts me every
day and this number is not declining any
nearly as fast as we would like to see
it decline still 226 PETA New Yorkers
who passed away and so we don't become
immune we talk about these numbers
it's 226 families right that's 226 wives
or brothers or sisters or children that
are now suffering the loss of a loved
one so that we remember them in our
thoughts and our prayers people are all
talking about reopening which we should
be talking about this is not a
sustainable situation close down
everything close down the economy lock
yourself in the home you can do it for a
short period of time but you can't do it
forever but reopening is more difficult
than the closed down the closed down was
relatively simple right you go into the
basement you throw the big power switch
and everything just goes down close the
businesses stay at home it was a blunt
operation and one that was done all
across the country just stop everything
now when you go to restart the reopening
now knowing what we know it's more
nuanced you have to be more careful and
again no one has done this before no one
has been here before so first start by
learning the lessons that we did learn
through this experience and second let's
be smart about what we do and I get the
emotion and I get the impatience and I
get the anxiety we all feel it when I
say this situation was unsustainable its
unsustainable on many levels its
unsustainable economically its
unsustainable personally a lot of
anxiety is now all through our community
we see it in increased alcoholism
increase substance abuse increased
domestic violence so this is a very very
difficult period and people want to move
on yes
but let's be smart up
what we do and let's learn the lessons
one of the lessons is we have never been
here before and we didn't really know
what was going on
CDC releases a report and the last week
that says the virus was actually coming
to the East Coast from Europe everybody
was looking at China for all those
months China China China China yeah
China was last November December the
virus migrated from China while we were
all staring at China and with the Europe
and the strain that came to the United
States came from Europe we had people in
the airports stopping people from China
testing people from China the federal
government did a lot of testing a lot of
screening people getting off planes from
China yeah but meanwhile the people from
Europe were walking right past them and
that's where the strain came from that
was infecting this area and that's what
the CDC just learned last week and this
is going back to February right on one
of the most study topics ever again
just learn the lessons of what happened
you now add that piece of information on
the Europe trips and then you see the
number of flights that came from Europe
during that time where they landed and
now you it explains why you've seen the
outbreak in Chicago that you've seen why
you've seen the number of cases in New
York because yes the flights were
landing here people were coming from
Italy and UK and from European countries
and nobody thought to screen them nobody
was on guard and you add that to the
density of New York especially in New
York City and that virus just took off
okay we didn't know we didn't know now
we do we also can look back in history
you look at that 1918 flu pandemic that
they talk about the places
opened too soon so that flu come right
back and by the way that flu was not one
wave that was three waves first wave
second wave third wave second wave was
worse than the first wave and you see
watch the other countries that went
through this before us right we're not
the first one down the chute there were
other countries that went down before us
you see they wanted to reopen also they
were feeling the pressure on reopening
and you study those cases and you see
that you've reopened too soon or you
reopen unintelligently and you can then
have an immediate backlash and that's
not speculation that is looking at other
countries and look at what what has
happened around the world and then you
talk to the experts who know listen to
what they're saying
dr. pouchy who i think is one of the
best voices and minds on this dr. Falchi
has been through this in in different
iterations he was one of the pioneers on
the HIV virus and AIDS and he says we
could be in for a bad fall and a bad
winter could be why cuz he doesn't know
he's not sure but could be for a bad
fall or bad winter okay so put all of
this in the in the equation and then
also acknowledge and actualize that the
truth is that nobody knows what happens
next and when it happens well how can
that be that nobody knows we're so
sophisticated we have so much
intelligence we have so many experts
this is the United States of America how
can it be that no one knows because no
one knows I speak to the best experts
globally globally and nobody can tell
you for sure now experts we look to
experts and we expect them
no so we pushed them - no answer the
question tell me when what's going to
happen in September what's going to
happen in December sometimes the answer
is I don't know sometimes that's the
honest answer I was talking to my
daughter's last night and they said you
know you say at your briefings I don't
know
how can you say that first I'm not
really sure they watch my briefings but
they're right sometimes I say I don't
know why because I don't know and if you
don't know say you don't know and I
speak again to the best minds in this
country the best minds around the globe
and they don't know so if you don't know
say you don't know it doesn't mean
you're not smart no reason to get
defensive I don't know
when you know what you don't know and
admit it it will actually keep you safe
my daughters don't quite agree with this
yet but I haven't given up on the
concept know what you don't know know
when you don't know what the future
holds you can be safe because then you
can prepare for different possibilities
and that's where we are we don't know
but we will be prepared for all
possibilities so reopening chart a
course with the best information you
have learning from the lessons you have
but be able to correct that course
depending on what happens which means
don't act emotionally don't act because
I feel this I feel that because someone
said well other states are opening so
we'll you must be able to open if other
states are open if we get the anecdotal
forget the atmospherics forget the
environment don't forget the emotional
look at the data look at the
measurements look at the science follow
the facts and that's what we've done
here from day one this is no gut
instinct this is look at the data look
at their science look at the metrics
move forward
measuring what you can and what you know
and then be prepared to adjust well I
want specificity I want to know for sure
you don't but there's liberation in
knowing that so let's do this
intelligently based on metrics and we'll
see what happens and we'll adjust to
whatever happens well what does that
mean our metrics you can measure this
and we have to measure this you look at
that percentage and the rate of
hospitalizations which we have right
that's the chart that goes up and down
you watch that hospitalization rate do
your diagnostic testing so you know how
many people are testing positive and you
can watch that rate going up or down or
flat do the contract tracing so after
the testing you follow up and you do
that contact tracing and you are then
reducing the infection spread by
isolating the positives if you do those
things you will control the rate of
transmission of the virus which is
everything nobody says you're going to
eliminate the virus in the short-term no
body but you can control the rate of
transmission and if you can control the
rate of transmission you can control the
rate of transmission from becoming an
outbreak or an epidemic or overwhelming
your public health system that is the
best you can do so control the rate of
transmission to what they call one point
one or less one point one is every
person infects one point one other
people more than one other person if
you're doing that that is an outbreak
that means it's going to increase
exponentially and it's going to be out
of control as long as your rate of
transmission is manageable and low then
reopen your businesses and reopen the
businesses in phases so you're
increasing that activity less
while you're watching the rate of
transmission rate of transmission goes
up stop the reopening close the valve
close the valve right away so reopen
businesses do it in phases and watch
that rate of transmission it gets over
one point one stop everything
immediately that's where the other
countries wound up they started to
reopen they exceeded the one point one
it became an outbreak again they had to
slow down rather than starting and
stopping you'd rather have a controlled
start so you don't have to stop right
and that's what you learn from the other
countries you reopen too fast then you
have to stop and nobody wants to have
gone through all of this and then start
just to stop again well how does that
happen first of all it's not going to
happen statewide this state has
different regions which are in much
different situations than other regions
in this state and rather than wait for
the whole state to be ready reopen on a
regional basis if upstate has to wait
for downstate to be ready they're gonna
be waiting a long time
so analyze the situation on a regional
basis okay
and you look at a region on four
measures the number of new infections
your health care capacity if the
infections goes too high you overwhelm
your health system now your Italy with
people on Gurney's in the hallway
because your hospital system can't
handle it do your diagnostic testing so
you're seeing how the infection is
increasing or decreasing and do the
contact tracing have that system in
place so when you test then you find the
positive you trace the contacts from
that positive person and you're
isolating them to bring down the rate
and you
do that on a regional basis that system
has to be in place for a regional basis
how do you start when can I start
reopening we look at guidelines from the
CDC which say a region has to have at
least 14 days of decline in total
hospitalizations and death on a
three-day rolling average so you take a
3 day average you have to have 14 days
of the client you can't have more than
15 new total cases or five new deaths on
a three day rolling average this is
telling you that you're basically at a
plateau level that you can actually
start to reopen then you're watching the
rate of infection and the spread of the
infection and the benchmark there is
fewer than two new covered patients per
100,000 residents right it's based on
your population to account for the
variants in the different sizes of
regions across the state
then anticipate protect yourself from
all possibilities well what if we have a
surge again never fill your hospitals to
more than 70 percent capacity leave 30
percent in case you have a surge
remember this virus is tricky the rate
of infection per a person who gets
infected today shows up in the hospital
10 days from today or two weeks from
today
so that infection rate goes up you don't
feel it for two weeks there's a lag to
it you want to make sure you have 30
percent of the hospital beds available
in case you have that surge also learn
the lessons from before every hospital
has to have 90 days of PPE
for that hospital at the rate that they
have been using it during covert we
cannot have another mad scramble where
nurses and doctors don't have downs and
masks etc because the hospitals don't
have the necessary stockpile so make
sure every hospital has the stockpile on
the testing we have done really
remarkable work on testing 1 million New
Yorkers have now been tested believe it
or not
and the CDC coronavirus task force for
the White House recommends that for a
region to reopen you have 30 tests for
every 1000 residents ready to go
so what testing capacity do we need for
a region to reopen you have to be
prepared to do 30 tests for every 1000
residents New York is doing more tests
than any country in the state by far New
York is doing more tests than any
country on the globe per capita so we're
way ahead and testing but it doesn't
matter what we're doing statewide to
open a region that region has to have a
testing capacity of 30 per 1000 the
National Guard has been doing a great
job for us in putting together testing
kits and distributing testing kits and
we want to thank them very much but we
have to have those tests and we have to
have what they call tracers contact
tracers in place and Mayor Bloomberg has
been very helpful former mayor of New
York City in putting together this
tracing system this has never existed
before on the scale a group of people
who literally trace contacts from a
person who's positive who did you have
dinner with last night who did you have
dinner with two nights ago who might you
have been in contact with
and then contacting those people to say
to you have any symptoms if you do you
should know you were with John Smith
John Smith tested positive he said he
went to dinner with you you should be on
alert that old tracing system has never
been done not only in this state but in
this country so this that all has to be
set up and it has to be done once that
is all done then you can talk about
reopening businesses well which business
is that we open first you open
businesses first that are most essential
and pose the lowest risk okay most
essential and the lowest risk phase one
we're talking about construction
manufacturing and select retail with
curbside pickup they are the most
essential with the lowest risk second
phase professional services retail the
administrative support real estate third
phase restaurant food services
accommodation fourth arts entertainment
recreation education
remember density is not your friend here
large gatherings are not your friend
that's where the virus tends to spread
that's why those situations would be
down at the end and then we need
businesses to also really imagine how
they're going to do business and get
ready to protect their workforce to
change their physical environment to the
extent they need to and to change their
processes to make sure people can
socially distance people remain at a
safe in a safe environment and that's
going to be up to businesses to come up
with ways to reconfigure their workplace
and their processes to make this work
and that's business by business
government can say these are the
standards but a business is going to
have to
you're out how to do that when you look
at this state there are some regions
that right now by the numbers pose a
lower risk some that pose a higher risk
we can tell you by region right now of
those criteria that we went through
which ones are in place for which region
so which ones have the right
hospitalization the right testing
regimen the right contract contact
tracing regimen and which ones still
have work to do in those areas
and this is going to be region by region
and each region has to put together the
leaders in those respective areas who
put together this system and monitor
this system literally on a daily basis
so they're getting all that import all
those specifics all that data and then
day by day they're making a decision as
to how to proceed with reopening based
on the data based on the facts and
that'll be a little different for every
region in the state may 15th is when the
statewide pause order PA USC not PA WS
the pause order the pause order was
stopped all businesses stay at home that
expires on may 15th may 15th regions can
start to reopen and do their own
analysis but these are the facts that
they have to have in place to do it
start now don't wait to May 15th
don't call me up on May 15th and say
well the pause order expired I want to
open because I'm going to ask you the
questions I just asked I just presented
do you have a healthcare system in place
is your health system ready can your
hospitals handle it the
have testing in place do you have
tracing in place have you talked to the
businesses about how they're going to
reopen so we have a couple of weeks but
the this is what local leaders this is
what a community has to deal with to
reopen safely and intelligently in my
opinion this can't just be we want to
get out of the house we're going No
let's be smart let's be intelligent
let's learn from the past let's do it
based on facts you know we are at a
different time in place government is
fundamentally in a different position
than it was just a couple of months ago
this is for real now right government
politics it's not about optics it's not
about celebrity it's not about press
releases it's not about what I put on
Instagram yesterday this is about
government leaders performance their
expertise this is a situation where
their competence and their ability can
be the difference between life and death
literally and what the governments have
done federal state local what we've done
in this state has literally saved lives
we reduced all the projected
hospitalization rates dramatically by
about a hundred thousand new yorkers
100,000 fewer new yorkers were
hospitalized than they predicted 100,000
think about that if we had 100,000 more
people in our hospital system first of
all our hospital system would have
collapsed
if the projections were true if we
didn't change those projections and we
literally saved lives how many of those
100,000 would have been hospitalized and
would have died so we've done great work
at a tremendous cost and tremendous
hardship but we've done great work
we just have to remain vigilant and
smart and competent going forward and
that's what New York tough means New
York tough means we're tough but we're
smart with disciplines we're unified and
we are loving and it's the love of
community and love of each other and
respect for each other which is what has
gotten us through this and will continue
to thank you very much for taking the
time to be here thank you for the social
distancing questions for myself or any
of my colleagues mask-wearing I said
look I believe this is the this is a
time for sort of honest straightforward
talk I said that I think it's
disrespectful of people not to wear
masks I mean think about it
you see all these commercials on TV we
thank you to our heroes thank you to the
nurses thank you to the doctors thank
you to the Transit workers thank you to
the police officers and we should be
thankful right they went to work so all
of us could stay safe and go home the
look the least gratitude you can show is
at least wear the mask so you don't
infect more people who place more of a
burden on the hospitals and the nurses
and the doctors who were all saying
thank you for your great service you
really want to say thank you then
respect them and respect their job and
wear the mask so you don't infect people
well I don't want to wear a mask it's
not that big a deal and by the way you
don't wear a mask for yourself you wear
a mask to protect me I wear a mask to
protect you we owe each other a certain
amount of reasonableness and respect in
society and I owe you that level of
respect that if I'm sick I should wear a
mask
local governments have the ability to
enforce and to penalize that's up to
local governments but do I think local
government should be enforcing it and
should there be sanctions yes yes
because it is a public health emergency
you know this is not just do me a favor
this is a public health emergency and
it's a statewide order that I put in
place that I'm proud of and local
governments have the responsibility to
enforce it and part of their right
the illegal right is they can have a
penalty or a sanction that they impose
so Rochester can have one penalty you
know you can be appropriate to the to
the community New York cities in a
different situation but yeah I think
local government should enforce it and I
think there should be a penalty because
you could little literally kill someone
you could literally kill someone because
you didn't want to wear a mask I mean
how how cruel and irresponsible would
that be yes yes you don't have to worry
no one said wear a mask all the time
right wear a mask if you may be in a
situation where you can't socially
distance you go for a walk in the woods
you don't have to be wearing a mask you
come to a point even from your walk in
the woods where you're going to be in a
parking lot or there's an entrance and
an exit and you may run into other
people wear the mask you can have the
mask down when you're walking in the
woods but now you see someone coming the
other way I'm gonna pass by the other
person you put the mask on I mean it's
it's the least that we can do right
everyone is killing themselves people
are working 24 hours a day show some
respect
show some basic modicum of respect
yeah putting putting all of these new
systems in place is an incredible task
and you know Society now we have a
temptation to blame well who's to blame
who's the blame nobody is to blame that
we don't have testing capacity for
millions of Americans we've never done
this before
our testing system was basically for the
flu test or strep or some other blood
test when the doctor would send you to a
lab to get a blood test we never had a
testing system in this nation that could
do this volume so this whole thing is
the Scramble and it was a scramble
between the federal government in the
States who's supposed to do it who's
responsible I had a good meeting with
the president a while back where we sat
down and we said look the states
controlled the labs we have about 300
labs in in New York State we regulate
them the state should be responsible for
what they can do and we need the federal
government to help where they can
the supply chain issue of reagents
manufacturing etc that is an
international supply chain ironically so
much of this stuff comes from China it's
like incredible on the testing the
reagents the chemicals as well as the
PPE when we were looking for masks and
gowns everything was in China but the
federal government has assumed the
responsibility of that international
supply chain the reagents etc this
states sort of take over at the state
line but that supply has increased and
we are distributing it and as you saw
we're doing more testing than any other
state or any other country per capita so
we're coming online very very quickly
but we still have more to do
won't be reopening for the rest of the
school year and I spoke to Louisville
yeah they're going to get guidance on
what the what plan they need to reopen
schools which is basically the analog to
what a business needs right I want to
reopen my manufacturing company okay how
do you do it and keep people six feet
apart how do you do it in the cafeteria
how do you do it then the transport how
do you run your business in a way that's
going to now meet these social
distancing guidelines same thing for a
school part of the issue for our school
was just the the gatherings in the
school you have 25 students in a class
how do you put 25 students in a class
and there's six feet apart I mean look
at this space right even these press
conferences you need for 20 people you
need you know a tremendous sized room
how how would you do that in the school
how do you socially distance students do
you need more classrooms which means
they need more teachers how do you serve
lunch what do you do about the bus how
do you keep fewer students on the bus so
those kinds of details have to be in the
reopening plan they'll get guidance on
that but it's going to be easier said
than done especially for a school
because think about the problem is the
gathering a school is a gathering that's
what it is
yeah look I get the whole liber8
movement there's no reason for a closing
of anything just open everything up and
let everybody go do whatever they want
to do I get that argument I hear it I
understand it I'm sympathetic to it you
know everybody wants out I also know the
facts of what has happened to the places
have who have done that and what you
suggest that was all those countries
that saw saw a spike in the number of
cases right afterwards
saw a spike in the infection rate sort
of spike in the hospitalizations or
spike in the number of deaths and I
would like to see as few New Yorkers
pass away as possible so yes people want
to get out on the other hand we want to
do it in a responsible way and that's
the whole question
you know 80 and 90% of us don't get the
coronavirus nobody has gotten the
coronavirus before some people say well
this is like a flu yeah it's not like a
flu even eighty ninety percent of us
don't get the flu right but this is a
different beast that we're dealing with
and we learned that the hard way
you don't hear anyone saying anymore
this is like the flu right that was back
in January February that was before we
had 18,000 people in our hospitals in
New York this is not a flu let's take
one more yes
[Music]
yeah this is a national problem we have
unemployment systems states run the
unemployment system in this case we have
a lot of federal benefits that are
running through the unemployment system
the unemployment system was set up with
phone operators and a website to handle
like thousands of calls thousands of
input we now have millions of inputs it
has overwhelmed every state unemployment
website office etc I talked to all the
governor's on these conference calls
they're all struggling to deal with a
number of unemployment claims federal
government then just passed a piece of
legislation several weeks ago that had
additional benefits for people which
then required new signups and then it
brought more people to the websites etc
we have hired over 3,000 people to
actually run our unemployment service
our website and to handle the telephones
3,000 people which is just incredible
just for the unemployment line and we've
made great progress there is still for
some people a delay because you do have
to document and certify that the person
is eligible you just can't be just if
somebody calls up and Bob Duffy calls
and say ok and you send them a check
federal law and common sense requires
that you affirm certain information the
good news is even if there's a delay on
the website it doesn't cost you any
money
when you get the check the check is from
the date of your eligibility even though
the website can be a pain in the neck to
deal with but I'll ask Melissa
DeRosa who has been overseeing this if
she has an update on the unemployment
site those people who have pending
status and this is actually very
important in commissioner Reardon is
going to do a call later today to brief
out on the latest what we found in the
last several days is that a lot of the
people who are in pending status have
not gone
and certified their unemployment status
which is a separate process from going
through the application so you file the
application you do the phone call you
process through but then you have to go
into the website into your account and
certify that you're unemployed and
that's something you have to do every
week by Saturday so you can either do it
on your website account or you can call
there's two separate numbers for
unemployment insurance it's eight eight
eight five eight one five eight one two
and four pandemic unemployment insurance
it's eight three three three two four OH
three six six and you have to do that
every single week and certify that you
are still unemployed and eligible to
work and then they process that
information so we sent out 90,000 emails
over the weekend to a batch of people we
identified that we're stuck in that
pending status because of that and as I
said Commissioner Reardon is gonna be
doing a more detailed call this
afternoon to continue to get this
information out to the public but that
is the number one thing that I would
recommend to those people who are still
sitting in pending status yes priority
status and just to punctuate one other
thing the governor said about the flu
the one big difference between corona
virus and the flu is that the flu has a
vaccine so for those people who are
still making that comparison I'd like
you to consider that
but you don't know what on the floor
vexing i'll coronavirus you don't know
what percent is gonna wind up getting it
nobody does and the experts don't know
either well that's not true but yeah
let's say it is true that the
overwhelming number of people who get it
don't die yeah okay yeah that's fine
unless you're the person who dies then
it's not so far
yeah the the nursing homes have seen in
many ways the most intense issue here
and when you think about where this even
started it started in a nursing home in
Washington state of Washington the
vulnerable population our senior
citizens people with comorbidities
compromised immune systems and a nursing
home is a aggregation of those people
and that's how it started and that is
where it is most dangerous in the
nursing homes I understand that I
understand the nursing home staff has
been doing doing those people who staff
these nursing homes have been doing a
fantastic job because it really is very
difficult and we had to put some
precautions in place that are just so
harsh I mean we can't have we said no
visitors to a nursing home during this
entire time I mean just think how harsh
that is right but all it takes is one
person to walk into that nursing home
with the virus and then you're off to
the races so we're doing everything we
can the nursing homes are working very
hard we also announced an investigation
with the Attorney General and the
Department of Health to make sure the
nursing homes are doing what they need
to do many of them are privately run but
this state can regulate them they have
to notify families etc so we're doing an
investigation on that but remember the
basic premise of the nursing home the
nursing home can only accept or keep a
patient if if they can provide adequate
care for that patient if they have a
kovat patient or non kovat patient but
they can't provide adequate care for
that person it is their obligation to
transfer the person if they can't find
the place to transfer the person it's
their obligation to call the State
Department of Health and the State
Department of Health will transfer the
person we have facilities
for kovat nursing home residents we have
some facilities that are just Fork Ovid
positive nursing home residents so we
have those facilities available if a
nursing home can't care for a co vyd
resident called the Department of Health
the Department of Health will transfer
the patient period and that
responsibility is on the nursing home
they have to know who they can care for
and who they can't care for if they
can't care for them for any reason my
staff is out sick I don't have the PPE
I can't quarantine I can't isolate for
whatever reason they have an obligation
to call the State Department of Health
and say I have to transfer this person
and we have existing facilities and beds
for them but the nursing home has to
make that determination and if they are
caring for people or they have people
who then not suit it to care for then
they're violating the state policy and
that's part of what this investigation
is going to look at so I've sent the
nursing homes before I say it again if
you cannot provide adequate care then
that person has no business being in
your nursing home and we do have
facilities and we do have beds that can
care for nursing home residents and do
it well and do it safely last point I'd
like to make the today we're talking
about what local government officials
have to do what each region has to do to
be ready May 15th is a possible
reopening if you're ready this is how
you're ready learning from the lessons
on the science on the facts but this is
a situation where yes government is
first and foremost in a position where
they have to make decisions and perform
and do it well and competence matters
and professionalism matters and we'll
hold government officials accountable
I want to be held accountable hold
government officials accountable but we
also need local officials we need our
hospital administrators to be a big part
of this and we need every citizen to be
part of this you know who's going to
keep you safe you are you are not me you
are by your actions you know who's going
to keep your family safe your family and
you are by being responsible and
reasonable in this situation and then
you know how we keep each other safe by
our individual responsibility and
respect by wearing the mask by
maintaining the social distancing that's
how we get through this everybody has a
role to play here there is no pointing
fingers nobody's been here before it's
no one else's job it's all of us
together and that's what has worked so
well so far we just have to stay at it
it's been an honor to be with you thank
you very much
you